Ap 14 upstream downstream sops repo (#57)
bf2fc6cc711aee1a0c2a/architecture: _ap/14/index.adoc

---
num: 14
category: "SOPs"

> title: "Mitigating exposing sensitive content in upstream SOP repos "

Reviewer: Agreed. Of course 'sensitive' data should always be prevented from leaking :), but this is more about "enabling the consumers of the SOPs to have more context-specific SOPs for their own purposes. E.g. SREs at a particular company may need a specific task that only makes sense for that company.

> title: "Mitigating exposing sensitive content in upstream SOP repos "

Reviewer 2: @emmanuelbernard I believe we are trying to mitigate the potential security threat here that was raised in the ADR document. 

I believe as we have open sourced this SOP process, we also inadvertently opened potential issues such as this security threat of any committer committing private data and therefore we must be very clear about this threat and provide an example on how to mitigate them.

> title: "Mitigating exposing sensitive content in upstream SOP repos "

Author: Ok yeah that makes sense ill make that change

> title: "Mitigating exposing sensitive content in upstream SOP repos "

Author: Im not sure i follow the discussion here and maybe i misunderstood the original ask for the AP, but are we not trying to document a easily repeatable model that gives a guide to other Red Hat services on how they could create a upstream repo with steps on how to lower the possibility of exposing Red Hat internal information?

> title: "Mitigating exposing sensitive content in upstream SOP repos "

Reviewer 2: >document a easily repeatable model that gives a guide to other Red Hat services on how they could create a upstream repo with steps on how to lower the possibility of exposing Red Hat internal information

@R-Lawton Just to clarify that this is my understanding and I would recommend doing this as it seems it is our responsibility to provide at least an example mitigation model.

> title: "Mitigating exposing sensitive content in upstream SOP repos "

Reviewer 2: > So would it be ok for everyone to widen the scope of the AP as I mentioned in the title and explicitly list use cases somewhere and including the sensitive data aspect?

It will list the example mitigation case so it's ok. I agree.

> title: "Mitigating exposing sensitive content in upstream SOP repos "

Reviewer 3: The _value_ here isn't so much in "preventing leaks" of internal details (though that _is_ a benefit). Instead it could be very valuable for upstream projects (such as, but certainly not limited to, Strimzi) to maintain SOPs for their software, simply because it's of direct benefit to their users. This allows things like:

* Having these SOPs tested and maintained upstream, where it's least costly
* Letting people in those upstream communities benefit from, contribute to & improve those SOPs, and develop new ones
* Keeping the knowledge of how to effectively operate the software in the community which produces the software.

Where those upstream communities are also upstreams for other Red Hat products then some of this value also flows back to other Red Hat stuff, but I think the case can be made for doing this upstream because it's simply the right thing to do.

status: "Draft"
authors:
  - "Rachel Lawton"
---

> When creating a upstream SOPs repo, care has to be taken to mitigate exposing sensitive content. A model that can be easily replicated to help with this mitigation is having a public upstream repo along with a private downstream repo. The public upstream repo will contain only information that is suitable for outside consumption, while the downstream private repo will have the content from the upstream repo as well as having extra information accompanying it that would not suitable for outside consumption. 

Reviewer 4: Minor but if you could break line at the end of each sentence, it makes for a more diff readable / editable content.

Reviewer: I would change "mitigate exposing sensitive content" to focus more on "enabling suitable content per context". See my previous comment for a more detailed explanation for this opinion.

To help prevent accidental leaks and to help users write in a upstream friendly way, a template should be created containing information on the generic layout and style of how the upstream SOP should be written, as well as generic safe for upstream content that would be common throughout the SOPs. Once the content is written and merged the content can then be pulled down to a single directory in the private downstream repo. From there automation will create a new SOP file using the already pre existing downstream SOP template, automatically adding in the upstream content for the user. Red Hat internal information will then be added into this new file by the Red hat engineer ensuring SRE have all the information they need to fix any issues that arise. This content will be added via the Asciidoc `includes` functionality, where it will then be rendered via Gitlabs built in rendering. 

> What also should be implemented to help with leaking information, is making it well known throughout the repo that its a upstream public repo and to be be careful with the content that is written. Also creating a doc downstream that contains terms, personas and topics that should and should *not* be used upstream.

Reviewer: Again, remove "accidental leaks" for a more positive veiwpoint.

---
num: 14
category: "SOPs"
title: "Allowing specialization of public SOPs to a specific execution context"
status: "Draft"
authors:
  - "Rachel Lawton"
---

When implementing a public upstream opensource SOPS repo, the proposed solution is to follow a two repository model. 
One private repository that will contain SOPs that will have internal information specific to a company. 
This could be infrastructure informaton, links to secrets and internal communciation for example. 
The second side of the model is to have a public repository that will have SOPs consumable by anyone. 
This model will allow other service operating group teams to use the private SOP repository without any information loss and allow upstream users to use and contribute to the SOP without riskinng altering the context of the content a company may have. 

> The recomeneded flow of using infomation contributed upstream repo in the internal downstream repo is through the use of automation. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The recommended flow of using information contributed upstream repo in the internal downstream repo is through the use of automation. 
```

The automation will pull from a branch in the upstream repo into a branch in the downstream repo. 
The content of the upstream repo should be merged into a single directory in the downstream repo allowing engineers to eliminate the possibility of merge conflicts as much as possible. 
From there to aid with seamless use and integration with the downstream repo the automation will create a file using a template with the new snippet of information from the upstream repo, this can then be decorated with additional information relevant to the downstream team only. 

> Some pitfalls that contributers have to be mindful of are,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some pitfalls that contributors have to be mindful of are,
```
